docs/homepage.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/russmatney/log.gd/actions/workflows/ci.yml"><img alt="Unit Tests" src="https://github.com/russmatney/log.gd/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg" /></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.patreon.com/russmatney">
    <img alt="russmatney on Patreon" src=https://img.shields.io/badge/Patreon-Support%20this%20Project-%23f1465a?style=for-the-badge />
  </a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/PQvfdApHFQ">
    <img alt="dangerruss on Discord" src="https://img.shields.io/discord/758750490015563776?style=for-the-badge&logo=discord&logoColor=fff&label=discord" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://mastodon.gamedev.place/@russmatney">
    <img alt="russmatney on Mastodon" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Mastodon-teal?style=for-the-badge&logo=mastodon&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.twitch.tv/russmatney">
    <img alt="russmatney on Twitch" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Twitch-purple?style=for-the-badge&logo=twitch&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.youtube.com/@russmatney">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Youtube-red?style=for-the-badge&logo=youtube&logoColor=white" alt="Youtube Badge"/>
  </a>
</p>

# Log.gd, a Godot pretty printer

> Available on the [Godot Asset
> Library](https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2696) and [Github](https://github.com/russmatney/log.gd).

> I gave a Lightning talk about this addon at Godot Con Boston!
> Here are [the
> slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Tlz8bLD4Uqltruwj7OmKIOr_InZrkWIvSDHUkQ_iJdY/edit#slide=id.p).
> Video link to come soon!

Log.gd provides a drop-in replacement for GDScript's `print(...)` function.

It colors the output based on the value passed in, and adds a prefix based on
the call-site's file and line number.

![Dino output logs (light theme)](/assets/dino_example_output_light.png)

![Dino output logs (dark theme)](/assets/dino_example_output_dark.png)

This makes Godot's `Output` buffer much more readable!

### TLDR

- `Log.pr(...)` is a `prints(...)` replacement (includes spaces between args)
- `Log.prn(...)` is the same, but includes newlines + tabs when printing arrays
  and dictionaries
- Both add prefix with the calling filename and line number (e.g. `[Player:34]`)
- Both color the output values based on the value's type

### Links

- [Docs (this page)](https://russmatney.github.io/log.gd/#/)
  - [Installation](https://russmatney.github.io/log.gd/#/?id=install)
  - [Features](https://russmatney.github.io/log.gd/#/?id=features)
  - [Public API](https://russmatney.github.io/log.gd/#/?id=public-api)
  - [Settings](https://russmatney.github.io/log.gd/#/?id=settings)
  - [Implementation](https://russmatney.github.io/log.gd/#/implementation)
- [Github](https://github.com/russmatney/log.gd)
- [Log.gd on the Godot Asset Library](https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2696)

### Implementation and Quirks

There is some documentation of GDScript features that Log.gd uses and some
related quirks [on this Implementation Details page](/implementation).

## Installation

### Godot Asset Library

Log.gd is [here on the Godot Asset
Library](https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2696), so can be installed
directly via the Godot Editor's `Asset Lib` tab.

### Via Github

- Clone the [Repo](https://github.com/russmatney/log.gd) somewhere locally
- Move the `addons/log/` folder into your game's `addons` directory

### Manual Copy+Paste

Log.gd is currently only one GDScript file! So you could just copy-paste [this
file]() into your game and run for it.


## Features

### Colorized output

The colorized output really shines when showing nested data structures (`Arrays`
and `Dictionaries`), but it's also very useful for other gdscript primitives,
like `Vectors`, `NodePaths`, and `StringNames`. Support for more types is easily
added, feel free to create an issue!

### Call-site prefixes

Log's print functions will prefix the output with the name of the script the log
comes from, including the line number.

!> This call-site feature is really nice, but it is not yet available
everywhere! Recent Godot builds (`4.5-dev3`) provide the call-stack to more
enviroments, and I need to do some testing to confirm whether this now works in
production builds.

### Objects and `to_pretty()`

You can opt-in to pretty-printing in your classes by implementing
`to_pretty()`, which Log will pickup via duck-typing.

```gdscript
class_name ExampleClass

func to_pretty():
    return {val=12}

func _ready():_
    Log.pr(self) # colorized `{"val": 12}`
```

TODO: pull in obj before/after images

### Type Handler Overwrites

You can 'register' handlers for built-in or otherwise 'closed' classes with
something like:

``` gdscript
Log.register_type_overwrite(some_obj.get_class(),
  func(val): return {name=val.name, level=val.level})
```

See the [type handlers functions](/?id=type-handlers).

### Color Themes

There is very rough color theme support. I'd like to develop this further, and
possibly align it more strongly with Godot's editor color themes.

For now it's a bit hard-coded...

## Public API

### Print functions

- `Log.pr(...)`, `Log.info(...)`
  - pretty-print without newlines
- `Log.prn(...)`
  - pretty-print with newlines
- `Log.warn(...)`
  - pretty-print with newlines
  - push a warning via `push_warning`
- `Log.err(...)`, `Log.error(...)`
  - pretty-print with newlines
  - push a error via `push_error`

?> These functions all take up to 7 args.
We could support more, but you can also pass an Array or a Dictionary if you
need more args right away.

?> `Log.warn()` and `Log.err()` are nice because `push_warning` and `push_error` on
their own do not let you see warnings/errors in the same context as your usual
`print()` statements.

### Returning a string

- `Log.to_pretty(msg: Variant, opts: Dictionary = {}) -> String`

`Log.to_pretty(val)` can be used to get a bb-code wrapped string, maybe to be
passed into a `RichTextLabel`.

### Toggling features

A few functions I use to tweak things at run time (e.g. when running tests).

- `Log.enable_colors()`
- `Log.disable_colors()`
- `Log.set_colors_termsafe()`
- `Log.set_colors_pretty()`

### Type Handlers

You can 'register' handlers for built-in classes with the below functions.

- `register_type_overwrite(key: String, handler: Callable)`
  - the handler should be like `val: Variant -> Variant`
- `register_type_overwrites(overwrites: Dictionary)`
  - Overwrites is a dictionary like `{obj.get_class(): handler_func}`
- `clear_type_overwrites()`

## Settings

There are a few Log.gd options available in Project Settings.

> It was pointed out to me that some of these should probably live as Editor
> Settings instead of Project-wide ones. I'll be moving things around soon!

- `max_array_size` (`20`)
  - How many array elements to print.
- `dictionary_skip_keys` ([`layer_0/tile_data`])
  - Dictionary keys that are _always_ ignored (i.e. never printed.)
- `disable_colors` (`false`)
  - Disables colors at game startup.
- `color_theme` (`PRETTY_DARK_V1`)
  - A text string name that aligns with (currently hard-coded) color themes.

## Other Godot Loggers

There are some other great printers/loggers with a variety of features - check
them out!

- [gg.print](https://github.com/graydoubt/gg_print)
- [Loggie](https://github.com/Shiva-Shadowsong/loggie)
- [LogFox](https://github.com/HakaikuXiao/LogFox) - comparing values across runs
- [GoLogger](https://github.com/Burloe/GoLogger) - more production/release angled
- [https://github.com/ClumsyInker/godot-editor-log-highlighter](https://github.com/ClumsyInker/godot-editor-log-highlighter)
- [https://github.com/albinaask/Log](https://github.com/albinaask/Log)
- [https://gitlab.com/godot-stuff/gs-logger](https://gitlab.com/godot-stuff/gs-logger)
- [https://github.com/JohnDevlopment/godot-jlogger](https://github.com/JohnDevlopment/godot-jlogger)
- [https://github.com/raldone01/godot_addon_gdlogging_assetlib](https://github.com/raldone01/godot_addon_gdlogging_assetlib)
- [https://codeberg.org/Taffer/godot-logger](https://codeberg.org/Taffer/godot-logger)
- [https://github.com/DawnGroveStudios/GodotLogger](https://github.com/DawnGroveStudios/GodotLogger)
- [https://github.com/ZeeWeasel/LogDuck](https://github.com/ZeeWeasel/LogDuck)
- [https://github.com/DaviD4Chirino/Awesome-Debug-Log](https://github.com/DaviD4Chirino/Awesome-Debug-Log)

Commit message:

docs: rainbow delimiter mention and image

docs/homepage.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/russmatney/log.gd/actions/workflows/ci.yml"><img alt="Unit Tests" src="https://github.com/russmatney/log.gd/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg" /></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.patreon.com/russmatney">
    <img alt="russmatney on Patreon" src=https://img.shields.io/badge/Patreon-Support%20this%20Project-%23f1465a?style=for-the-badge />
  </a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/PQvfdApHFQ">
    <img alt="dangerruss on Discord" src="https://img.shields.io/discord/758750490015563776?style=for-the-badge&logo=discord&logoColor=fff&label=discord" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://mastodon.gamedev.place/@russmatney">
    <img alt="russmatney on Mastodon" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Mastodon-teal?style=for-the-badge&logo=mastodon&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.twitch.tv/russmatney">
    <img alt="russmatney on Twitch" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Twitch-purple?style=for-the-badge&logo=twitch&logoColor=white" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.youtube.com/@russmatney">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Youtube-red?style=for-the-badge&logo=youtube&logoColor=white" alt="Youtube Badge"/>
  </a>
</p>

# Log.gd, a Godot pretty printer

> Available on the [Godot Asset
> Library](https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2696) and [Github](https://github.com/russmatney/log.gd).

> I gave a Lightning talk about this addon at Godot Con Boston!
> Here are [the
> slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Tlz8bLD4Uqltruwj7OmKIOr_InZrkWIvSDHUkQ_iJdY/edit#slide=id.p).
> Video link to come soon!

Log.gd provides a drop-in replacement for GDScript's `print(...)` function.

It colors the output based on the value passed in, and adds a prefix based on
the call-site's file and line number.

![Dino output logs (light theme)](/assets/dino_example_output_light.png)

![Dino output logs (dark theme)](/assets/dino_example_output_dark.png)

This makes Godot's `Output` buffer much more readable!

### TLDR

- `Log.pr(...)` is a `prints(...)` replacement (includes spaces between args)
- `Log.prn(...)` is the same, but includes newlines + tabs when printing arrays
  and dictionaries
- Both add prefix with the calling filename and line number (e.g. `[Player:34]`)
- Both color the output values based on the value's type

### Links

- [Docs (this page)](https://russmatney.github.io/log.gd/#/)
  - [Installation](https://russmatney.github.io/log.gd/#/?id=install)
  - [Features](https://russmatney.github.io/log.gd/#/?id=features)
  - [Public API](https://russmatney.github.io/log.gd/#/?id=public-api)
  - [Settings](https://russmatney.github.io/log.gd/#/?id=settings)
  - [Implementation](https://russmatney.github.io/log.gd/#/implementation)
- [Github](https://github.com/russmatney/log.gd)
- [Log.gd on the Godot Asset Library](https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2696)

### Implementation and Quirks

There is some documentation of GDScript features that Log.gd uses and some
related quirks [on this Implementation Details page](/implementation).

## Installation

### Godot Asset Library

Log.gd is [here on the Godot Asset
Library](https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2696), so can be installed
directly via the Godot Editor's `Asset Lib` tab.

### Via Github

- Clone the [Repo](https://github.com/russmatney/log.gd) somewhere locally
- Move the `addons/log/` folder into your game's `addons` directory

### Manual Copy+Paste

Log.gd is currently only one GDScript file! So you could just copy-paste [this
file]() into your game and run for it.


## Features

### Colorized output

The colorized output really shines when showing nested data structures (`Arrays`
and `Dictionaries`), but it's also very useful for other gdscript primitives,
like `Vectors`, `NodePaths`, and `StringNames`. Support for more types is easily
added, feel free to create an issue!

Support for "rainbow-delimiters" (cycling colors on nested brackets and
dictionary keys) was added in `v0.0.8`!

![Rainbow Delimiters](/assets/rainbow_delimiters.png)

### Call-site prefixes

Log's print functions will prefix the output with the name of the script the log
comes from, including the line number.

!> This call-site feature is really nice, but it is not yet available
everywhere! Recent Godot builds (`4.5-dev3`) provide the call-stack to more
enviroments, and I need to do some testing to confirm whether this now works in
production builds.

### Objects and `to_pretty()`

You can opt-in to pretty-printing in your classes by implementing
`to_pretty()`, which Log will pickup via duck-typing.

```gdscript
class_name ExampleClass

func to_pretty():
    return {val=12}

func _ready():_
    Log.pr(self) # colorized `{"val": 12}`
```

TODO: pull in obj before/after images

### Type Handler Overwrites

You can 'register' handlers for built-in or otherwise 'closed' classes with
something like:

``` gdscript
Log.register_type_overwrite(some_obj.get_class(),
  func(val): return {name=val.name, level=val.level})
```

See the [type handlers functions](/?id=type-handlers).

### Color Themes

There is very rough color theme support. I'd like to develop this further, and
possibly align it more strongly with Godot's editor color themes.

For now it's a bit hard-coded...

## Public API

### Print functions

- `Log.pr(...)`, `Log.info(...)`
  - pretty-print without newlines
- `Log.prn(...)`
  - pretty-print with newlines
- `Log.warn(...)`
  - pretty-print with newlines
  - push a warning via `push_warning`
- `Log.err(...)`, `Log.error(...)`
  - pretty-print with newlines
  - push a error via `push_error`

?> These functions all take up to 7 args.
We could support more, but you can also pass an Array or a Dictionary if you
need more args right away.

?> `Log.warn()` and `Log.err()` are nice because `push_warning` and `push_error` on
their own do not let you see warnings/errors in the same context as your usual
`print()` statements.

### Returning a string

- `Log.to_pretty(msg: Variant, opts: Dictionary = {}) -> String`

`Log.to_pretty(val)` can be used to get a bb-code wrapped string, maybe to be
passed into a `RichTextLabel`.

### Toggling features

A few functions I use to tweak things at run time (e.g. when running tests).

- `Log.enable_colors()`
- `Log.disable_colors()`
- `Log.set_colors_termsafe()`
- `Log.set_colors_pretty()`

### Type Handlers

You can 'register' handlers for built-in classes with the below functions.

- `register_type_overwrite(key: String, handler: Callable)`
  - the handler should be like `val: Variant -> Variant`
- `register_type_overwrites(overwrites: Dictionary)`
  - Overwrites is a dictionary like `{obj.get_class(): handler_func}`
- `clear_type_overwrites()`

## Settings

There are a few Log.gd options available in Project Settings.

> It was pointed out to me that some of these should probably live as Editor
> Settings instead of Project-wide ones. I'll be moving things around soon!

- `max_array_size` (`20`)
  - How many array elements to print.
- `dictionary_skip_keys` ([`layer_0/tile_data`])
  - Dictionary keys that are _always_ ignored (i.e. never printed.)
- `disable_colors` (`false`)
  - Disables colors at game startup.
- `color_theme` (`PRETTY_DARK_V1`)
  - A text string name that aligns with (currently hard-coded) color themes.

## Other Godot Loggers

There are some other great printers/loggers with a variety of features - check
them out!

- [gg.print](https://github.com/graydoubt/gg_print)
- [Loggie](https://github.com/Shiva-Shadowsong/loggie)
- [LogFox](https://github.com/HakaikuXiao/LogFox) - comparing values across runs
- [GoLogger](https://github.com/Burloe/GoLogger) - more production/release angled
- [https://github.com/ClumsyInker/godot-editor-log-highlighter](https://github.com/ClumsyInker/godot-editor-log-highlighter)
- [https://github.com/albinaask/Log](https://github.com/albinaask/Log)
- [https://gitlab.com/godot-stuff/gs-logger](https://gitlab.com/godot-stuff/gs-logger)
- [https://github.com/JohnDevlopment/godot-jlogger](https://github.com/JohnDevlopment/godot-jlogger)
- [https://github.com/raldone01/godot_addon_gdlogging_assetlib](https://github.com/raldone01/godot_addon_gdlogging_assetlib)
- [https://codeberg.org/Taffer/godot-logger](https://codeberg.org/Taffer/godot-logger)
- [https://github.com/DawnGroveStudios/GodotLogger](https://github.com/DawnGroveStudios/GodotLogger)
- [https://github.com/ZeeWeasel/LogDuck](https://github.com/ZeeWeasel/LogDuck)
- [https://github.com/DaviD4Chirino/Awesome-Debug-Log](https://github.com/DaviD4Chirino/Awesome-Debug-Log)
